README.md, before:

## Fungal communities in *Juniperus* spp and *Quercus* spp

I am working with Illumina MiSeq paired-end data using the ITS2 rDNA region for metabarcoding of fungal communities. 

In this repository you can find scripts, data, metadata and results to identify fungal communities using Illumina MiSeq paired-end data and to analyse fungal diversity and fungal community composition. 

The `/bin` directory contains the bash, manual steps and R scripts to denoise Illumina MiSeq pair-end data, create the OTU table, assign taxonomy and trophic mode of the OTUs, filter the OTU table in R, and analyze alpha- and beta-diversity. 

The `/data` directory contains the metadata file containing samples information and the output data from the AMPtk pipeline that acts as input data for R scripts. It also contains the .md files numbered in order of use to transform the output data into input data (from *.biom* to *.txt* and back to *.biom*).  

The `/output` directory contains all figures obtained from R scripts to be used for the publication. 


All the sequence data associated with this project are deposited in [OSF](https://osf.io) while the final OTU table (.biom) is in [data](https://github.com/bc-anaisabel/juniperus_paper/tree/master/data)


## Citation
Palmer JM, Jusino MA, Banik MT, Lindner DL. 2018. Non-biological synthetic spike-in controls
        and the AMPtk software pipeline improve mycobiome data. PeerJ 6:e4925;
        DOI 10.7717/peerj.4925. https://peerj.com/articles/4925/

Commit message:

Added description of project and samples

README.md, after:

## Fungal communities in *Juniperus* spp and *Quercus* spp

### Background and sample information ### 

I am working with Illumina MiSeq paired-end data using the ITS2 rDNA region for metabarcoding of fungal communities. In this project I am using metabarcoding to identify the fungal communities present in the soil and in the seedling roots of isolated and mixed oak (*Quercus rugosa*) and juniper (*Juniperus deppeana*) populations. The goal is to study plant-soil feedbacks along a disturbance gradient in central Mexico. 

Because oak and juniper are plants with different mycorrhizal types, oak being known as an ectomycorrhizal plant and juniperus as an arbuscular-mycorrhizal plant, it is expected that the presence of both may influence the other through these plant-soil feedbacks causing changes, which could be positive, neutral, or negative, to the plant growth and overall health and of course, to the fungal communities abundance and diversity. 

The samples I used for sequencing were root and soil samples. Samples were taken from 3 different sites: i) disturbed site with a population of *J. deppeana*, ii) mixed site where *J. deppeana* and *Q. rugosa* grow side by side (regeneration zone), and iii) a native site in forest dominated by *Q. rugosa*. Root samples come from collecting the root system of 6 seedlings in each site of *J. deppeana* (sites i and ii) and *Q. rugosa* (sites ii and iii), for a total of 24 root samples. For soil samples, we collected 3 soil cores for each plant species in each site, for a total of 12 soil samples. 

## Repository guide ## 

In this repository you can find scripts, data, metadata and results to identify fungal communities using Illumina MiSeq paired-end data and to analyse fungal diversity and fungal community composition. 

The `/bin` directory contains the bash, manual steps and R scripts to denoise Illumina MiSeq pair-end data, create the OTU table, assign taxonomy and trophic mode of the OTUs, filter the OTU table in R, and analyze alpha- and beta-diversity. 

The `/data` directory contains the metadata file containing samples information and the output data from the AMPtk pipeline that acts as input data for R scripts. It also contains the .md files numbered in order of use to transform the output data into input data (from *.biom* to *.txt* and back to *.biom*).  

The `/output` directory contains all figures obtained from R scripts to be used for the publication. 

## Raw data ## 


All the sequence data associated with this project are deposited in [OSF](https://osf.io) while the final OTU table (.biom) is in [data](https://github.com/bc-anaisabel/juniperus_paper/tree/master/data)


## Citation
Palmer JM, Jusino MA, Banik MT, Lindner DL. 2018. Non-biological synthetic spike-in controls
        and the AMPtk software pipeline improve mycobiome data. PeerJ 6:e4925;
        DOI 10.7717/peerj.4925. https://peerj.com/articles/4925/
